In this lecture, I will introduce you to
power mock by the end of it you will
learn what power mock is why we need it
and how it works. Mockito no doubt is
one of the most used mocking frameworks
in the java space but it does come with
certain limitations where it can't mock
out the edge cases like static methods
final methods, constructors private
methods enum etc.. The piece of our
code which uses these will become
untestable these are not frequently used
but once in a while we do how to mock
these out that is where power mock comes
into picture and it saves us.
Power mock instead of reinventing the wheel it
reuses what is already there in mocking
frameworks like Mockito and easy mock
and extends them so there is a flavor
of power mock which is for the mockito
users and there is a flavor of power
mocks for the easy mock users,
easy mock is another popular mocking
frameworks you can download either
version as we will be doing in the next
few lectures. The reason why mockito and
easy mock cannot do what power mock
achieves because they use proxy pattern to
mock out classes or objects that is if
class A uses class B and then we are
testing Class A we mock out class B
mockito uses a proxy pattern to
implement or inherit Class B at runtime
dynamically if you mark Class B as final
then we cannot mock out Class B or
mockito cannot mock out Class B once
the class is marked final it cannot be
inherited and Class A cannot use the
mocked out object that is where pwermock
comes in and it uses bytecode
manipulation and a custom class loader
to achieve what other mocking frameworks
cannot do but since power mock reuses
what is already there the syntax for
stubbing and setting expectations is
very similar so the learning curve for
you since you have already mastered
mockito it is very less as the methods
to stub out and set expectations are
same and this changed slightly when you
are mokking out static methods private
methods etc even when you are verifying
the same old verify methods from mockito
it will be seeing the same syntax in
action you will learn all this and more
in the next few lectures so to summarize
power mock is a mocking framework that
allows you to mock out things that you
cannot mock using mockito to another
mocking frameworks the power of power mock
comes from its bytecode manipulation and
custom class loader syntax of power mock
is very similar to what you have learned
from mockito and there are a few new
methods that you will be learning